

                     DECLARATION OF ORIGINALITY

                       UNIVERSITY OF PRETORIA

The University of Pretoria places great emphasis upon integrity and ethical
conduct in the preparation of all written work submitted for academic
evaluation.

While academic staff teach you about referencing techniques and how to
avoid plagiarism, you too have a responsibility in this regard. If you
are at any stage uncertain as to what is required, you should speak to
your lecturer before any written work is submitted.

You are guilty of plagiarism if you copy something from another author's
work (e.g. a book, an article or a website) without acknowledging the
source and pass it off as your own. In effect you are stealing something
that belongs to someone else. This is not only the case when you copy
work word-for-word (verbatim), but also when you submit someone else's
work in a slightly altered form (paraphrase) or use a line of argument
without acknowledging it. You are not allowed to use work previously
produced by another student. You are also not allowed to let anybody copy
your work with the intention of passing if off as his/her work.

Students who commit plagiarism will not be given any credit for plagiarised
work. The matter may also be referred to the Disciplinary Committee
(Students) for a ruling. Plagiarism is regarded as a serious contravention
of the University's rules and can lead to expulsion from the University.

The declaration which follows must accompany all written work submitted while
you are a student of the University of Pretoria. No written work will be
accepted unless the declaration has been completed and attached.


Full names of student:  .......................................

Student number:         .......................................

Topic of work:          .......................................


Declaration

1. I understand what plagiarism is and am aware of the University's
   policy in this regard.

2. I declare that this assignment report is my own original work.
   Where other people's work has been used (either from a printed source,
   Internet or any other source), this has been properly acknowledged and
   referenced in accordance with departmental requirements.

3. I have not used work previously produced by another student or any
   other person to hand in as my own.

4. I have not allowed, and will not allow, anyone to copy my work with
   the intention of passing it off as his or her own work.


SIGNATURE: .......................................  DATE: .................


